this infamously loosely designated area
between florida puerto rico and the
bermudez is
any captains and pilots nightmare many
disappeared aircraft
ships and cruise liners were attributed
to this mysterious zone
they say the main reason why this place
is so enigmatic
must be the magnetic fields that form
this ominous triangle
ocean floor is made of rocks containing
a lot of magnetite
not magnets you put on your fridge to
remember that lovely trip to paris
it's more like iron magnetic fields
react to the high concentration of
magnetite on the ocean floor
which may start a sort of conflict
between the two
it can often lead to various weather
anomalies and as a result
navigation issues and naturally any
changes in the ocean floor
or the earth's magnetic fields influence
the bermuda triangle a lot
magnetic fields tend to shift their
position so do tectonic plates and even
the continents
even though we never notice it even
magnetic poles move
for example over the last 30 years the
north magnetic pole
shifted significantly from canada to
siberia
since the magnetic field is constantly
moving it might be also taking the
bermuda triangle with it
now that people know where the triangle
is it's easy to avoid it
it supposedly moves eastward together
with the magnetic poles
but scientists still can't answer where
exactly it will lie in a couple of years
mysterious things don't end here calm
and stormless sargasso sea
might be no less dangerous than the
bermuda triangle and it comes as no
surprise
that it actually crosses into it so
what's so dangerous about a sea
with calm crystal clear waters no heavy
winds or huge waves
no icebergs you know the typical
culprits when it comes to taking down
ships
it's the sea's almost absent winds that
make it hard for sailing ships to pass
through
large freighters and barges can cross it
pretty easily but smaller less powerful
ships
haven't always been so successful in the
area plenty have gotten stuck and lost
here
the pacific ocean mystery area is
another sinister triangle
off the south coast of japan not far
away from tokyo
there's a sea where plenty of ships meet
their doom
disappearing without a trace in these
waters they call it the dragon's
triangle
some people blame all disasters on the
extraterrestrial paranormal activity
others suppose it's all about raging
natural phenomena
some scientists believe the cause of
anomalies is the environmental changes
also there's a really high concentration
of methane hydrates on the bottom of the
ocean
in the pacific bermuda area this gas
tends to explode whenever the
temperature reaches more than 64 degrees
fahrenheit
when it happens bubbles start forming on
the surface of the water
these gas eruptions can interrupt the
ability to float
and can easily sink a ship because of
this chemical reaction
there won't be even a trace left
underwater volcanoes
are said to be another possible
explanation for the japanese dragons
triangle
in fact they can take down even small
islands
luckily nobody lives there it's a pretty
common thing in this area
that some of them disappear under water
and others appear
out of the blue because of seismic
activity
you'll never find the dragon's triangle
on any official map of the world
so nobody's quite sure about how large
it is in reality
but the notorious triangles don't end
there
there's one in lake michigan just like
its alternative the bermuda triangle
the michigan triangle got its shady
reputation for some disappearances
the first recorded one dates back to
1679.
a large vessel one of the largest of
that time set out on an expedition
yet once it got in the sinister triangle
it never
came back an aircraft disappeared in
this triangle once
the skies are usually very clear there
but back in 1883
some people witnessed abnormal things in
the area
some claim to have seen large blocks of
ice falling from the skies
and the crew even managed to save one as
hard proof
seems like the bermuda triangle has an
alternate not only on earth but even in
space
spacecraft usually don't disappear into
thin air though
like there's no air this anomalous area
is really large and stretches right
above the south atlantic
it occupies the area from chile to
zimbabwe
and sits right at the point where the
van allen radiation belts
are the closest to the surface of our
planet the earth has
two such belts which come in handy
trapping the particles that shoot in
from the sun
they do a great job protecting the earth
from radiation
the magnetic field there is lower so it
allows the earth's radiation belt to
come
closer to the surface whenever a
satellite passes by
it will be exposed to radiation which
might lead to serious damage
so no satellite can take pictures of it
the south atlantic anomaly
is part of the earth where natural
radiation just
flows out of control still there is
little evidence
that all these triangles are really
dangerous
many believe the bermuda triangle itself
has been proven
time and again to be nothing but a work
of fiction
in fact some shipwrecks such as the
ellen austin
gained popularity in the middle of the
20th century while
nobody even thought of drawing a
triangle in the bermuda area before that
the mystery was popularized by science
fiction writers
and became a common myth while no
serious research
proved it any more dangerous than other
parts of the world's ocean
so the crew of the ellen austin back in
weren't even aware of the bermuda
triangle back then let alone afraid of
it
not only the triangles haunt people
across the world but
circles too in costa rica there's a
small island called
isla de cano where there's an assortment
of about 300 circular objects of
different sizes
locals call them las bolas de pedra
which is simply the stone balls in
english these stones have an almost
perfectly round shape
some of them are huge weighing up to 16
tons each
they're also made of different materials
gabriel limestone and sandstone
local chiefs would often put those balls
in line in front of their houses
they must have been really tired of
those garden gnomes everyone else has
there's no precise information on their
origin some myths claim
these stones originated from atlantis
if you ever travel to the mekong river
you'll probably have a chance of seeing
baleful glowing balls
rising from the water and beelining up
into the air
locals call these the naga fireballs
sizes vary so these reddish balls can be
as tiny as a spark
and as large as a basketball the number
of fireballs per night
varies from dozens to thousands
scientists don't have any solid
explanation why it happens
but is probably flammable gas released
by the marshy environment
most of the great lakes are quite
mysterious in minnesota
on the northern shore of lake superior
there's a park with a waterfall split in
two
one part of the river continues the
other disappears
whatever object you throw into the
waterfall kettle won't float back
up anywhere in sight they say it's
totally unsafe for people
because it's nearly impossible to trace
the flows
yeah there's no underworld whatsoever
everything that falls down the waterfall
returns to the lake
via an underground river the trick is
that there are powerful currents that
can hold various objects underneath
before they resurface sometimes later
the center of lake superior is notorious
for shipwrecks
it's also very dangerous because the
water there is freezing cold
only 36 degrees fahrenheit deep in the
amazon
there's the four mile long shanay
tepinchka river
that's boiling nonstop the name means
boiled by the sun well it's not actually
boiling
but it can reach a critical 196 degrees
fahrenheit
enough to cook pasta the lowest
temperature in these waters is about 113
degrees
this river still can't be scientifically
explained
because it requires a volcano to be
close for the water to reach such
temperature
however the closest volcano is 435 miles
away
so other explanations suggest a hot
spring beneath the earth
that could create this phenomenon
dangerous waters vary
so gippsland lakes australia can glow at
night
bacteria agitate in water when the algae
bloom
and their movements give that
bioluminescent effect
red algae bloom's beauty is extremely
misleading
algae types are different but those that
can be found in the red tide
contain high levels of ammonia those who
dare swim in it
may get eye irritation and rash it's
better just to enjoy the breathtaking
scenery
sitting on the beach and do that
preferably with your nose pinched
the decaying algae smell well let's call
it funky